Loom docs (#278)
FabricMC/fabric-docs: develop/loom/fabric-api.md

---
title: Fabric API DSL
description: Documentation for the Fabric API support in the Fabric Loom Gradle plugin.

> authors:
>   - modmuss50
> ---
> 
> # Fabric API DSL {#dsl}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors:
  - modmuss50
  - kb-1000
  - Juuxel
  - Atakku
  - SolidBlock-cn
authors-nogithub:
  - jamieswhiteshirt
  - daomephsta
  - caoimhe
---
```

fabricApi {
 configureDataGeneration {
  // Contains the output directory where generated data files will be stored.
  // Defaults to `src/main/generated`
  outputDirectory = file("src/generated/resources")

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether a run configuration should be created for the data generation process.
  // Defaults to `true`
  createRunConfiguration = true

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether a new source set should be created for the data generation process.
  // This is useful if you do not want your datagen code to be exported in your mod jar.
  // Defaults to `false`
  createSourceSet = true

  // Contains a string representing the mod ID associated with the data generation process. This must be set if `createSourceSet` is true.
  // This must be the mod id of the mod used for datagen in the datagen source set and not your main mod id.
  modId = "example-datagen"

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether strict validation is enabled.
  // Defaults to `false`
  strictValidation = true

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether the generated resources will be automatically added to the main source set.
  // Defaults to `true`
  addToResources = true

>   // Contains a boolean indicating whether data generation will be compiled and ran with the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Contains a boolean indicating whether data generation will be compiled and run with the client.
```

  // Defaults to `false`
  client = true
 }
}
```

## Tests {#tests}

> As with data generation a basic testing setup can be achieved with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with data generation you can set up basic testing with the following:
```

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether a run configuration should be created for the data generation process.
  // Defaults to `true`
  createRunConfiguration = true

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether a new source set should be created for the data generation process.
  // This is useful if you do not want your datagen code to be exported in your mod jar.
  // Defaults to `false`
  createSourceSet = true

  // Contains a string representing the mod ID associated with the data generation process. This must be set if `createSourceSet` is true.
  // This must be the mod id of the mod used for datagen in the datagen source set and not your main mod id.
  modId = "example-datagen"

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether strict validation is enabled.
  // Defaults to `false`
  strictValidation = true

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether the generated resources will be automatically added to the main source set.
  // Defaults to `true`
  addToResources = true

  // Contains a boolean indicating whether data generation will be compiled and run with the client.
  // Defaults to `false`
  client = true
 }
}
```

## Tests {#tests}

> As with data generation you can set up basic testing with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with data generation, you can set up basic testing with the following:
```
